# TextSpeaker

The link above directs you to the repo that houses the code so that you can clone it to your local unit.

[Previous page](/)
[Cambia a Espanol](/Spanish.md)

This static template will show you how to use ChatGPT and with, ralph's, my code to practice english by speaking with the AI (Artificial Intelligence); by speaking with it and getting a voice generated response by the AI. There has to be some manual work done, but carrying out the simple tasks to get a speaking experience will be very easy. 

<code> git clone https://github.com/RalphEdgard/TextSpeaker.git </code>
This code is used to change directories you can also do this in Finder
<code> cd TextSpeaker </code>

The very crucial thing here is for you you to use the inputFile.txt file to input the responses that are generated by ChatGPT. You can manually create the file in the Finder application or you can let my program create the file for you automatically (hopefully my code is good enough for it to generate the file by itself, it should).

# Speaking with ChatGPT
You can talk to ChatGPT about anything, you can talk about engineering, politics, love, and other useful subjects that will not only teach you english but also keep you informed with events before 2021. The thing here is that you need to create an account first, using ChatGPT is limited by your imagination, the more creative you are with ChatGPT the better results you can get from your english sessions from it, the AI is also capable of teaching you english, if you don't know words or are confused with phrases or anything in terms of english concepts you are able to ask the AI and it WILL teach you. 

Log in to the [ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com/auth/login) website, be sure to create an account first before proceeding on with the template. 

In your MAC keyboard press the "control" key twice to activate the microphone so you can speak into the computer after you have clicked on ChatGPT's prompt, also ensure that you MAC is in english so it can understand what you are saying in english (in your MAC you might just need to change the voice settings to english). ChatGPT will respond and after it does you can click on the clipboard button to copy the response to your MAC's clipboard. 

From there you can open your finder and open a new terminal session in your MAC, in your finder you need to open the inputFile.txt that should have come with the repo that you have cloned from git. Once you have opened the file you can paste the text that you have copied from the AI's response. Hold both the command and s keys to save the contents for the program to read and then in the terminal run this command: 

``python3 textSpeaker.py # This will directly run the program``

It will ask you "Have you input some text? (Y or N):" it is crucial to type in 'Y' or 'N'. This will let the program know that you have input some text into the inputFile.txt file. From there the AI will speak, you will also be able to read what it is saying to keep up with what it is trying to say. 

# AI's Behavior 

This portion of the static page will help you understand how my program behaves. The important part is the textSpeaker.py file, it has the ability to give the program a voice. When you input text into the inputFile.txt and run the program it will delete the contents, however when you tell the program to speak it will ask you if you want it to repeat the contents in the file before deleting them and if you type in "N" then it will delete the contents and wait for more text in the file. 

When you run the program a .mp3 file would be generated, this is the voice of the program. This file won't be deleted unless you delete it, any new contents that are in the file will overwrite the contents in the output.mp3 file it won't add more files to your memory. The way this portion works is when you input text into the inputFile.txt file it will generate a recording using the text in that file. 

You must first tell the program that you do not want it to repeat what the AI said, so type 'N', before you input new contents in the file or else it will not speak the new contents. It will also take it some time for the program to speak greater contents that have paragraphs of text, but it won't take too long, this can be upgraded later on. 

When you input "N" the program will terminal the shell process, this means that you would have to open a new terminal window and go to the repo and run the program again. The program will come with the inputFile.txt, this file is very important because this is where you will input the AI's responses, if you take this file out the program will try to create another one. If it can't then it will display an error stating that it can't find the file. If this occurs you can manually create the file using the finder or just run this command: 

<code>touch inputFile.txt</code> 

and ensure that the newly created file is under the right directory which would be TextSpeaker. You can message me to let me know what upgrades do you want to make the program have better sessions with you. 
